Come back in this video we are going to see an alternative to typing everything manually because that's
exactly what we did last time when we created our you I manually.
And it was quite some work we had to write a lot of code and if we run the application we can see that
it's really just this little button.
And then this window would with a checkbox so that's not very nice and it's a lot of work for just a
little piece of UI elements.
Well we're going to find a way to do it in a much much more sophisticated and better way.
So in order to do so.
Open up your cube creator.
So you installed this tool within this chapter and it's called cute creator or puti Creator and there
you can anytime create a new project.
So we're going to create a new project and we select cute widgets application by the way you could have
a lot more possible Leakey's here if you had installed more application or more aspects of qued in the
installation process.
But the one that we want to use is this huge widget application which supports the platform desktop.
That's exactly what we want and we're going to choose that.
Now we need to give it a name and this is going to be the project location.
So we're going to put all of its files and I'm going to call this UI.
But now what's important is that I go into the same folder where I had my application here so I had
it under this directory here in my den is pulling it up chump projects to the manager.
So I'm going to copy the path and we'll use it in my cute here.
So the students manager browse real quick just to see where I'm in the.
Yes I am.
Do the managers select the folder and then I press next.
And here just click next.
Again so many options just like that one.
I'm going to leave the names as well last names header files and so forth.
Everything is standard and then we just press finish gate a bunch of files for us but the C++ code is
not really what we were interested in.
What we are interested in is in so there is a folder called forms here and it contains this main window.
So I would just double click it and here you can create your UI.
So for example you can make your window a little bigger then you can drag in a push button you can add
some radio buttons that say I want to have multiple radio buttons here and those that we are they are
not perfectly aligned yet.
But that doesn't matter for now because it's just about the general idea of this.
Then you can pretty much create a bunch of stuff here.
So from all it everything that you see here you can just drag it in and then just test what it does
and you will see which different options you have.
So I'm just going to get a check box here as well.
Now if let's say I want to change the name of the pushbutton or missed the text that it says then I
can just call this Click Me and the radio button would be something like Choice 1 then Choice 2 and
made the choice 3.
Even though we haven't connected them to each other yet then we have this check box.
I like this.
So either you like it or not and you can check it and so forth.
So there are plenty of different UI elements that you can.
Greg in here very easily and.
Yeah.
So I'm going to save it as you can see there's a little star which indicates that it's not saved going
to save it with control.
And now my file will be safe.
Now if I check this same file in my PI charm and as you can see if you go back to pide term suddenly
there's UI folders in here you will find there is this main window that the white folder.
Now let me double click it and if it doesn't open up double clicking you know opens up a main window
wide open then you can just drag it in here so it will create a new window here when you tap.
And now you can see that you get x m l text here which is just structured code.
You could say it's very similar to M L where you have an opening tag and a closing tag.
And this pretty much structures our whole file that we've just created here or our whole UI.
So this UI that we've created is now created in SML code where it pretty much says OK there is a queue
widget which is called queue push button.
It has the property or there's a property called Geometry which says it's forgie whatever x values 40
y values.
And with this 80 the height is 22 and so forth.
So all of the different UI elements that we have created like the radio button and another radio button
and the third rate you button they are all in here and they all have specific values for for example
their geometry and they have a specific text like Choice 3 and so forth.
So there are properties in there already they can have more properties but we just have the standard
one so we've created or that were created for us based on that were based on what we've done pretty
much in the huge creator.
So now what shall we do with this.
Because we don't care about X-amount we don't want to work with X-amount at least that's what I don't
want to do in this video.
I want to focus on Python code right.
So how do I go ahead and create Python code from it's because I don't want this to be SML I want it
to be Python.
Well there is a way to do it.
And we need to create a new file which will pretty much convert that Exham elde code into Python code
for us.
So let's create a python file which takes care of it.
So I created in the student manager directory creating a python file which I call build's thought why.
And in here I'm just going to say from q t pie or Q Why I want to import do you.
I see you could remember and like you I converted.
And what it should do is it should compile my UI based on directories so the directory should be UI.
So what it's going to do is it pretty much is going to check out this whole UI folder and that's why
it's important that we have this build up here why in this to the manager and the why Holder is to the
manager as well.
So it's just going to pretty much create a python file based on the files in here and mainly based on
this main window.
Q Why.
So if I now save this file this build the wine and I executed by running it you will see that here we
have a new file called main window.
What.
So let me open that main window peel by file and you can see it's automatically created for us form
implementation generated from reading you why file main window you are created by P Why Q T 5 y code
generator 5 9 2 warning.
All changes made in this file will last.
OK so we cannot change this file pretty much as it says here and we would have to change it in the main
UI.
We're in our tudy creator but as you can see you get Typhon Koshare So it says from the cute 5 important
core cute GUI on and cute widgets and we have this class called you our main window which takes in an
object and there is this method called set up UI which needs a main window so it needs cell and main
windows.
So what we can now do with this is pretty much create this UI that we have just created disgress user
interface here in Python by just changing our main wife files and Cosin here we had our window.
Then we had the button with the checkbox and that was pretty much it.
So I'm going to get rid of all of this code from button to check box and when to delete that and in
here I'm just going to create a main window for you main window object.
So how do I do that.
Well first of all I need to import this main window.
Why and how do I do that.
Well I just say from you I dot main window so there is a main window file and didn't do it automatically
correctly.
So from you I got main window which pretty much means from this UI.
Then there is a main window python file and in there you have a class called you main window.
So please import you by main window so now we are importing this class here which contains the two methods
which contains this CWI method and to translate your.
And this set up method as you can see contains a central widget.
It contains a push button which is a push button which we have seen in the past.
Then it sets the geometry to a specific position on the form.
So pretty much on the UI then we have another radio button radio button to read your button three and
they all have specific positions.
Same for check boxes and so forth and so forth.
So we have some things like a menu bar and a main two bar status bar which were automatically created
for us which we haven't dragged in there.
OK so now how do I actually sign this main window that we have here.
We have a window we already just says student manager.
We still have it.
So if I run the main but why we still get this empty window we can see how do I fill it up with the
window that we have created here because we have created a very beautiful UI here already and now it's
time to put it in here now.
Well how do we do that is we create an object or a window class.
So we pretty much create an instance of this UI main window class here and I'm going to call it UI window
and I'm just saying OK this is going to be our UI main window.
And now I can set up the UI so I can call this set of UI methods that we have here.
This one which is going to set up a UI but it needs a main window where it should be displayed.
So here I just say OK the window that we have created before which wasn't the main window so our window
widgets main window is going to be the one that I passed to you and now we can go ahead and execute
our code again.
So let me run it again run again.
And as you can see now I have my UI.
So this Click Me button.
I have my check box.
My choice boxes or my Combo Boxes here with my three choices.
All right.
So that's already pretty much how we can do that.
Right.
So we can just drag and drop stuff in there and then we can go ahead and pretty much make Python code
from it and then use it in our Python of course there's a lot more to learn about this and we haven't
seen how to use user input and stuff like that.
So we are going to check out the cute creator and a lot more detail and depth in the next video.
And then later we're going to see how we can actually use user input.
So see you in the next video.